Use your feelings, Obi-Wan, and find him you will.
Already know you that which you need.
Adventure. Excitement. A Jedi craves not these things.The Empire Strikes Back
At an end your rule is, and not short enough it was!
Around the survivors a perimeter create.
Soon will I rest, yes, forever sleep. Earned it I have. Twilight is upon me, soon night must fall.
Not if anything to say about it I have
Through the Force, things you will see. Other places. The future…the past. Old friends long gone.
Ow, ow, OW! On my ear you are!
The dark side clouds everything. Impossible to see the future is.
Size matters not. Look at me. Judge me by my size, do you? Hmm? Hmm. And well you should not. For my ally is the Force, and a powerful ally it is. Life creates it, makes it grow. Its energy surrounds us and binds us. Luminous beings are we, not this crude matter. You must feel the Force around you; here, between you, me, the tree, the rock, everywhere, yes. Even between the land and the ship.
Not if anything to say about it I have when he confronts Darth Sidious
Younglings, younglings gather ’round.
Luminous beings are we…not this crude matter.The Empire Strikes Back
Clear your mind must be, if you are to find the villains behind this plot.
Always two there are, no more, no less. A master and an apprentice.
Do. Or do not. There is no try.The Empire Strikes Back
Much to learn you still have…my old padawan. … This is just the beginning!
Good relations with the Wookiees, I have.
Ready are you? What know you of ready? For eight hundred years have I trained Jedi. My own counsel will I keep on who is to be trained. A Jedi must have the deepest commitment, the most serious mind. This one a long time have I watched. All his life has he looked away… to the future, to the horizon. Never his mind on where he was. Hmm? What he was doing. Hmph. Adventure. Heh. Excitement. Heh. A Jedi craves not these things. You are reckless.
Truly wonderful, the mind of a child is.Attack of the Clones
Luke: What’s in there? : Only what you take with you.
Always pass on what you have learned.
Once you start down the dark path, forever will it dominate your destiny, consume you it will.
Mudhole? Slimy? My home this is!
Yes, a Jedi’s strength flows from the Force. But beware of the dark side. Anger, fear, aggression; the dark side of the Force are they. Easily they flow, quick to join you in a fight. If once you start down the dark path, forever will it dominate your destiny, consume you it will, as it did Obi-Wan’s apprentice.
Do not assume anything Obi-Wan. Clear your mind must be if you are to discover the real villains behind this plot.
Death is a natural part of life. Rejoice for those around you who transform into the Force. Mourn them do not. Miss them do not. Attachment leads to jealously. The shadow of greed, that is.
Like fire across the galaxy the Clone Wars spread. In league with the wicked Count Dooku, more and more planets slip. Against this threat, upon the Jedi Knights falls the duty to lead the newly formed army of the Republic. And as the heat of war grows, so, to, grows the prowess of one most gifted student of the Force.
Hmm. In the end, cowards are those who follow the dark side.
Strong is Vader. Mind what you have learned. Save you it can.
Pain, suffering, death I feel. Something terrible has happened. Young Skywalker is in pain. Terrible pain
Difficult to see. Always in motion is the future..
You will find only what you bring in.
Feel the force!
Reckless he is. Matters are worse.
That is why you fail.The Empire Strikes Back
Your weapons, you will not need them.
To answer power with power, the Jedi way this is not. In this war, a danger there is, of losing who we are.
Try not. Do or do not, there is no try.
When you look at the dark side, careful you must be.
For the dark side looks back.
Always pass on what you have learned.
Train yourself to let go of everything you fear to lose.
You think Yoda stops teaching, just because his student does not want to hear? A teacher Yoda is. Yoda teaches like drunkards drink, like killers kill.
Secret, shall I tell you?  Grand Master of Jedi Order am I. Won this job in a raffle I did, think you? "How did you know, how did you know, Master Yoda?" Master Yoda knows these things. His job it is.
The dark side clouds everything. Impossible to see the light, the future is.
In a dark place we find ourselves, and a little more knowledge lights our way.
Once you start down the dark path, forever will it dominate your destiny, consume you it will.
Always in motion is the future.
Size matters not. Look at me. Judge me by my size, do you?  Hmm?  Hmm.  And well you should not.  For my ally is the Force, and a powerful ally it is. Life creates it, makes it grow. Its energy surrounds us and binds us. Luminous beings are we, not this crude matter. You must feel the Force around you; here, between you, me, the tree, the rock, everywhere, yes. Even between the land and the ship.
A Jedi's strength flows from the Force.
Fear is the path to the dark side. Fear leads to anger. Anger leads to hate. Hate leads to suffering.
Named must your fear be before banish it you can.
You will find only what you bring in.
Yes, a Jedi's strength flows from the Force. But beware of the dark side. Anger, fear, aggression; the dark side of the Force are they. Easily they flow, quick to join you in a fight. If once you start down the dark path, forever will it dominate your destiny, consume you it will, as it did Obi-Wan's apprentice.
A Jedi must have the deepest commitment, the most serious mind. This one a long time have I watched. All his life has he looked away... to the future, to the horizon. Never his mind on where he was. Hmm? What he was doing. Hmph. Adventure. Heh. Excitement. Heh. A Jedi craves not these things.
Always two there are, a master and an apprentice.
Already know you that which you need.  
Luke: I don't believe it.  Yoda: That is why you fail.
Many of the truths that we cling to depend on our point of view.
You will know (the good from the bad) when you are calm, at peace. Passive. A Jedi uses the Force for knowledge and defense, never for attack.
A Jedi must have the deepest commitment, the most serious mind. 
You must unlearn what you have learned.
To answer power with power, the Jedi way this is not. In this war, a danger there is, of losing who we are.
Ready are you? What know you of ready? For eight hundred years have I trained Jedi. My own counsel will I keep on who is to be trained. A Jedi must have the deepest commitment, the most serious mind. This one a long time have I watched. All his life has he looked away... to the future, to the horizon. Never his mind on where he was. Hmm? What he was doing. Hmph. Adventure. Heh. Excitement. Heh. A Jedi craves not these things. You are reckless.
Blind we are, if creation of this clone army we could not see.
Ohhh. Great warrior. Wars not make one great.
And well you should not. For my ally in the Force. And a powerful ally it is. Life creates it, makes it grow. It's energy surrounds us and binds us. Luminous beings are we...(Yoda pinches Luke's shoulder)...not this crude matter. (a sweeping gesture) You must feel the Force around you. (gesturing) Here, between you...me...the tree...the rock...everywhere! Yes, even between this land and that ship! 
Through the Force, things you will see. Other places. The future...the past. Old friends long gone. 
Clear your mind must be, if you are to find the villains behind this plot.
I cannot teach him. The boy has no patience.
Truly how wonderful the mind of a child is.
Death is a natural part of life. Rejoice for those around you who transform into the Force. Mourn them do not. Miss them do not. Attachment leads to jealously. The shadow of greed, that is.
Sometimes you find inspiration in strange places, like wisdom from your grandmother, a learning from a friend or a neighbour, a snippet of insight from a TV show even. It’s everywhere if you look for it.
And so this week I’ve looked to a Hollywood movie franchise for inspiration. Mainly because I don’t think we should put limits on how or where we are inspired to think differently, or motivated to change for the better.
I’ve always loved this quote by the Jedi Master Yoda from the Star Wars movies:
“Do or do not. There is no try.”
So true. You can’t ‘try’ to do something. Try and pick up a pen now. Go on. Try to do it.
You can’t.
We can only take action when we commit to ‘doing’. Trying simply does not exist.
And so today I’ll share with you a collection of quotes from the Jedi Master that is Yoda. Yes he’s not real, yes he speaks back to front and yes he is green and has very large ears – judge him not though, for much wisdom he speaks! (and now I’m starting to talk like him…oh no.)
Read through the quotes below slowly and with an open mind. Who knows perhaps some of Yoda’s Jedi Wisdom will rub off on you…hmmmm.